hey I want to show you a real quick
trick with some spareribs it's not
really a trick this is how this it will
save you some money but breaking down
the whole spareribs and the st. Louis
cut yourself don't pay that extra money
for the st. Louis cut ribs at the
butcher get you this whole spareribs and
do it at home what I have here is this
is a thought this is a whole spare rib
you can see you got your ribs and then
you got your breast plate a pair of rib
tips is what people call it now to get
the st. Louis cut what I do is I get
them on my cutting board and try to get
it to the straight edge see how it's
kind of run this right along that edge
and that's kind of my line that I want
to keep the ribs straight with and then
I usually come about the third or fourth
rib and look for the longest bone in the
rack and we're not actually cutting
through bone we're just making a cut
right through cartilage and I start at
one the end of that long bone and then
come straight down and that gives me a
straight cut notice I didn't get through
any bone it was just cartilage and now
I've got my width I can come back and
spin the board keeping my line straight
I can see a straight line and come right
down the rack so you have a st.
louis-cut sniper ribs now what I always
do for competitions at home you may want
to save some of these tips or just cook
the tips lazily square the racks up just
to make them nice and neat for
competition there you have st. louis-cut
spare ribs don't throw these rib tips
away now you see I got me a bag going
here save these you can smoke a run
along these ribs they're great to eat
you just take them when they get done
split them up into pieces real easy with
a cleaver or a heavier knife you got
some fine eating there might not be the
prettiest ribs but it's excellent meat
oh it's all red meat so don't throw it
away all they'll smoke it put in some
but this is the st. louis-cut I broke
them down from a full-size set of
spareribs
nothing to it you can do this at home
save yourself some money instead of
bottom already cut